h2. Install Ubuntu

<pre><code>
sudo su
apt-get install build-essential
apt-get install ruby rdoc libopenssl-ruby
apt-get install rubygems
apt-get install git
</code></pre>

h2. Install on OSX Snow Leopard

from:  http://hivelogic.com/articles/compiling-ruby-rubygems-and-rails-on-snow-leopard/

<pre><code>
Make the new folder:

mkdir ~/src
cd ~/src

</code></pre>

h3. Download Ruby and Rubygems:
<pre><code>
curl -O ftp://ftp.ruby-lang.org/pub/ruby/1.8/ruby-1.8.7-p174.tar.gz
curl -O http://files.rubyforge.vm.bytemark.co.uk/rubygems/rubygems-1.3.5.tgz
</code></pre>

Step 3: Compile and Install

First, Ruby:
<pre><code>
tar xzvf ruby-1.8.7-p174.tar.gz
cd ruby-1.8.7-p174
./configure --enable-shared --enable-pthread CFLAGS=-D_XOPEN_SOURCE=1
make
sudo make install
cd ..
</code></pre>
To verify that Ruby is installed and in your path, just type:
<pre><code>
which ruby
</code></pre>
You should see:
<pre><code>
/usr/local/bin/ruby
</code></pre>
If you do, this means you now have a super-fast, 64-bit version of Ruby ready to go. If you saw something different, you haven’t set your path correctly. Go back and try again.

Compile and install RubyGems:
<pre><code>
tar xzvf rubygems-1.3.5.tgz
cd rubygems-1.3.5
sudo /usr/local/bin/ruby setup.rb
cd ..
</code></pre>

h2. Windows Install 

Download and run railsInstaller.exe

http://files.rubyforge.vm.bytemark.co.uk/railsinstaller/railsinstaller-1.1.1.exe


h2. gem installs
<pre><code>
gem install rails
gem install rake
gem install active_scaffold_vho
gem install active_scaffold_config_list_vho
gem install active_scaffold_batch_vho
gem install active_scaffold_export_vho
gem install active_scaffold_sortable_vho
gem install recordselect_vho
gem install render_component_vho
</code></pre>